README.md, before:

# miniRT - My First Ray Tracer

<img width="1358" alt="Screen Shot 2024-08-28 at 6 39 30 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a35e8a61-080f-48a6-ab70-de768d832741">

This project is an implementation of a simple ray tracer using the miniLibX library. It's capable of rendering basic 3D scenes described in .rt files.

## Compilation

This project uses a Makefile for compilation. Here are the main commands:

- `make`: Compile the mandatory part
- `make bonus`: Compile the bonus part
- `make clean`: Remove object files
- `make fclean`: Remove object files and executables
- `make re`: Recompile the project

The compilation process will create an executable named `miniRT` for the mandatory part or `miniRT_bonus` for the bonus part.

### Creating the Executable

To create the executable, follow these steps:

1. Open a terminal and navigate to the project's root directory.
2. For the mandatory part, run:
   ```
   make
   ```
   This will create the `miniRT` executable.

3. For the bonus part, run:
   ```
   make bonus
   ```
   This will create the `miniRT_bonus` executable.

4. If you want to recompile everything from scratch, you can use:
   ```
   make re
   ```
   or
   ```
   make fclean && make
   ```

After successful compilation, you should see the `miniRT` or `miniRT_bonus` executable in your project directory.

## Usage

To run the program:

```
./miniRT <scene_file.rt>
```

For the mandatory part, use the files in `data/` that start with "mandatory_".
For the bonus part, use the files that start with "bonus_".

Example:
```
./miniRT data/mandatory_model.rt
```

## Technologies Used

- C programming language
- miniLibX library for graphical rendering
- Math library for mathematical calculations
- Ray tracing algorithms for 3D rendering

## Norminette

This project follows the Norm, a programming standard used at 42 school. For more information about the Norm and the Norminette tool used to check it, please refer to the [42 Norm repository](https://github.com/42School/norminette).

## Features

- Render basic 3D shapes: spheres, planes, and cylinders
- Handle ambient and diffuse lighting
- Parse .rt scene description files
- Apply translations and rotations to objects
- Handle window management and basic user input

Bonus features (if implemented):
- Specular reflection (Phong reflection model)
- Checkerboard pattern
- Multiple colored lights
- Additional shapes (cone, hyperboloid, paraboloid)
- Bump mapping

## Note

Make sure you have the necessary libraries installed, including miniLibX and the math library, before compiling the project.

Commit message:

fix README.md for adding link for subject pdf file

README.md, after:

# miniRT - My First Ray Tracer

<img width="1358" alt="Screen Shot 2024-08-28 at 6 39 30 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a35e8a61-080f-48a6-ab70-de768d832741">

This project is an implementation of a simple ray tracer using the miniLibX library. It's capable of rendering basic 3D scenes described in .rt files.

For more detailed information about the project requirements and specifications, please refer to the [subject.pdf](./requirements/subject.pdf).


## Compilation

This project uses a Makefile for compilation. Here are the main commands:

- `make`: Compile the mandatory part
- `make bonus`: Compile the bonus part
- `make clean`: Remove object files
- `make fclean`: Remove object files and executables
- `make re`: Recompile the project

The compilation process will create an executable named `miniRT` for the mandatory part or `miniRT_bonus` for the bonus part.

### Creating the Executable

To create the executable, follow these steps:

1. Open a terminal and navigate to the project's root directory.
2. For the mandatory part, run:
   ```
   make
   ```
   This will create the `miniRT` executable.

3. For the bonus part, run:
   ```
   make bonus
   ```
   This will create the `miniRT_bonus` executable.

4. If you want to recompile everything from scratch, you can use:
   ```
   make re
   ```
   or
   ```
   make fclean && make
   ```

After successful compilation, you should see the `miniRT` or `miniRT_bonus` executable in your project directory.

## Usage

To run the program:

```
./miniRT <scene_file.rt>
```

For the mandatory part, use the files in `data/` that start with "mandatory_".
For the bonus part, use the files that start with "bonus_".

Example:
```
./miniRT data/mandatory_model.rt
```

## Technologies Used

- C programming language
- miniLibX library for graphical rendering
- Math library for mathematical calculations
- Ray tracing algorithms for 3D rendering

## Norminette

This project follows the Norm, a programming standard used at 42 school. For more information about the Norm and the Norminette tool used to check it, please refer to the [42 Norm repository](https://github.com/42School/norminette).

## Features

- Render basic 3D shapes: spheres, planes, and cylinders
- Handle ambient and diffuse lighting
- Parse .rt scene description files
- Apply translations and rotations to objects
- Handle window management and basic user input

Bonus features (if implemented):
- Specular reflection (Phong reflection model)
- Checkerboard pattern
- Multiple colored lights
- Additional shapes (cone, hyperboloid, paraboloid)
- Bump mapping

## Note

Make sure you have the necessary libraries installed, including miniLibX and the math library, before compiling the project.
